README.rst, before:


.. warning::

    The repository state, docs and steps for the build environment are in flux
    and changing to virutalenv.


.. important::

    This document contains quick start instruction. For more details, please see
    the `Open Knesset developers documentation`_

.. _Open Knesset developers documentation: https://oknesset-devel.readthedocs.org/

.. contents::

Installation
==============

GitHub
---------

- Make sure you have an account on GitHub_, and you're logged in.
- Fork the repository_ (top right of page). This creates a copy of the
  repository under your user.
- See http://linux.yyz.us/git-howto.html for a short list of options with
  git and github.com help for more.

.. _GitHib: https://github.com
.. _repository: https://github.com/hasadna/Open-Knesset


Linux
-----------

- Install initial requirements (since we're gonna comile PIL into the environemnt,
  we'll also need development tools):
  
  **Debian and derivatives like Ubuntu and Mint**
  
  .. code-block:: sh
  
      sudo apt-get install build-essential git python python-dev python-setuptools python-virtualenv python-pip
      sudo apt-get build-dep python-imaging
      sudo apt-get build-dep python-lxml
  
  
  **Fedora**
  
  .. code-block:: sh
  
      sudo yum groupinstall "Development Tools" "Development Libraries"
      sudo yum install git python python-devel python-setuptools python-virtualenv python-pip libjpeg-turbo-devel libpng-devel libxml2-devel libxslt-devel


- If you haven't done so already:

  - ``git config --local user.name "Your Name"``
  - ``git config --local user.email "your@email.com"``

- Create the virtual environment. In the terminal cd to the directory ypu want
  the environment create it and run ``virtualenv oknesset``.

- Activate the virutalenv ``cd oknesset; . bin/activate`` Note the changed
  prompt which includes the virtualenv's name.

- Clone the repository::

    git clone https://github.com/your-username/Open-Knesset.git

  This creates a copy of the project on your local machine.

- Install required packages: ``pip install -r Open-Knesset/requirements.txt``
  and wait ...
- Run the tests::

    cd Open-Knesset
    ./manage.py test
    

MS Windows
-----------

- `Download the latest Python 2.7`_ MSI installer matching your architecture
  (32 or 64 bit). As of this writing, the latest one is `2.7.3`_. Install it.
- `Download distribute`_ for your architecture and install it.
- Open command windows and::

    cd c:\Python27\Scripts
    easy_install pip virtualenv

- Download and install the installers matching your architecture for PIL_
  and lxml_ (version 2.3.x).
- Download and install `GitHub for Windows`_.
- Run the GitHub program (should have an icon on the desktop). Sign in
  with your username and password.
- Run `Git Shell` (should have an icon on desktop). In that shell create the
  virtualenv::

    cd C:\
    C:\Python27\Scripts\virtualenv --distribute --system-site-packages oknesset
- Still in that shell activate the virutalenv::

    cd oknesset
    Scripts\activate

  Note the changed prompt with includes the virtualenv's name.
- Clone the repository. In the `oknesset` directory and run
  ``git clone git@github.com:your-name/Open-Knesset.git``
- Install requirements: ``pip install -r Open-Knesset\requirements.txt`` and
  wait.
- Run the tests::

    cd Open-Knesset
    python manage.py test

.. _Download distribute: http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#distribute- 
.. _2.7.3: http://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7.3/
.. _Download the latest Python 2.7: http://python.org/download/releases/
.. _PIL: http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#pil
.. _lxml: http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#lxml
.. _GitHub for Windows: http://windows.github.com


After basic installation: Tests and initial db
=================================================

.. note:: MS Windows users: repleace ``./manage.py`` with ``python manage.py``.

- Run the tests: ``./manage.py test``
- Download and extract dev.db (TODO: Provide a link) into the ``Open-Knesset``
  directory
- Make sure db schema is upated: ``./manage.py migrate``
- Create a superuser if needed: ``./manage.py createsuperuser``



Installation process
-----------------------

- ``./manage.py test``
- ``./manage.py syncdb --migrate`` # do not create a superuser account
- ``./manage.py loaddata dev``
- ``./manage.py createsuperuser`` # to create your superuser account
- ``./manage.py runserver``
- ``vi knesset/local_settings.py`` 
  create your local setting file to store a bunch of things that you do NOT
  want to push to everyone # NOTE: NEVER push settings.py with local changes!
- sample input for local_settings.py: ``DATABASE_NAME = '<your-local-path>dev.db'``  # Or path to database file if using sqlite3.

.. note::
    at this point the bills view is missing bills names. To fix this you can run
    the time intensive:

    - ``./manage.py shell_plus``
    - ``for bill in Bill.objects.all(): bill.save()``

    or run this for just several bills:

    - ``for bill in Bill.objects.all()[:100]: bill.save()``

Trouble?
-------------

- Some of the mirrors are flaky so you might need to run the buildout several times until all downloads succeed.
- currently using MySQL as the database engine is not supported


Working process
===================

Let's describe some developement  workflow.

Before you code
----------------

Get your branch updated with the changes done by others. Please do this every time before you start developing:

- ``cd Open-Knesset``
- ``git pull git@github.com:hasadna/Open-Knesset.git master``
- ``bin/buildout``                     # only needed if the file buildout.cfg was changed; but can't hurt you if you run it every time.
- ``bin/django syncdb --migrate``      # do not create a superuser account
- ``bin/test``                         # if there are any failures, contact the other developers to see if that's something you should worry about.
- ``bin/django runserver``             # now you can play with the site using your browser

if you get the add_persons_aliases alert try ``bin/django migrate --fake persons 0001``

When you code
---------------

General
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Write tests for everything that you write.
- Keep performance in mind - test the number of db queries your code performs using ``bin/django runserver`` and access a page that runs the code you changed. See the output of the dev-server before and after your change.

Adding a field to existing model
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We use south to manage database migration. The work process looks something like:

- add the field you want to model sample_model in app sample_app
- bin/django schemamigration sample_app --auto # this generates a new migration under src/knesset/sample_app/migrations. You should review it to make sure it does what you expect.
- bin/django syncdb --migrate # run the migration.
- don't forget to git add/commit the migration file.

Updating the translation strings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Currently, there is no need to update translation (po) files. Its a real
headache to merge when there are conflicts, so simply add a note to the commit
message "need translations" if you added any _('...') or {% trans '...' %} to
the code.

After you code
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``./manage.py test`` # make sure you didn't break anything
- ``git status`` # to see what changes you made
- ``git diff filename`` # to see what changed in a specific file
- ``git add filename`` # for each file you changed/added.
- ``git commit -m`` "commit message" # Please write a sensible commit message, and include "fix#: [number]" of the issue number you're working on (if any).
- ``git push`` # push changes to git repo
- go to github.com and send a "pull request" so your code will be reviewed and pulled into the main branch, make sure the base repo is *hasadna/Open-Knesset*.

Commit message:

Document run_server, enable debug toolbar

README.rst, after:


.. warning::

    The repository state, docs and steps for the build environment are in flux
    and changing to virutalenv.


.. important::

    This document contains quick start instruction. For more details, please see
    the `Open Knesset developers documentation`_

.. _Open Knesset developers documentation: https://oknesset-devel.readthedocs.org/

.. contents::

Installation
==============

GitHub
---------

- Make sure you have an account on GitHub_, and you're logged in.
- Fork the repository_ (top right of page). This creates a copy of the
  repository under your user.
- See http://linux.yyz.us/git-howto.html for a short list of options with
  git and github.com help for more.

.. _GitHib: https://github.com
.. _repository: https://github.com/hasadna/Open-Knesset


Linux
-----------

- Install initial requirements (since we're gonna comile PIL into the environemnt,
  we'll also need development tools):
  
  **Debian and derivatives like Ubuntu and Mint**
  
  .. code-block:: sh
  
      sudo apt-get install build-essential git python python-dev python-setuptools python-virtualenv python-pip
      sudo apt-get build-dep python-imaging
      sudo apt-get build-dep python-lxml
  
  
  **Fedora**
  
  .. code-block:: sh
  
      sudo yum groupinstall "Development Tools" "Development Libraries"
      sudo yum install git python python-devel python-setuptools python-virtualenv python-pip libjpeg-turbo-devel libpng-devel libxml2-devel libxslt-devel


- If you haven't done so already:

  - ``git config --local user.name "Your Name"``
  - ``git config --local user.email "your@email.com"``

- Create the virtual environment. In the terminal cd to the directory ypu want
  the environment create it and run ``virtualenv oknesset``.

- Activate the virutalenv ``cd oknesset; . bin/activate`` Note the changed
  prompt which includes the virtualenv's name.

- Clone the repository::

    git clone https://github.com/your-username/Open-Knesset.git

  This creates a copy of the project on your local machine.

- Install required packages: ``pip install -r Open-Knesset/requirements.txt``
  and wait ...
- Run the tests::

    cd Open-Knesset
    ./manage.py test
    

MS Windows
-----------

- `Download the latest Python 2.7`_ MSI installer matching your architecture
  (32 or 64 bit). As of this writing, the latest one is `2.7.3`_. Install it.
- `Download distribute`_ for your architecture and install it.
- Open command windows and::

    cd c:\Python27\Scripts
    easy_install pip virtualenv

- Download and install the installers matching your architecture for PIL_
  and lxml_ (version 2.3.x).
- Download and install `GitHub for Windows`_.
- Run the GitHub program (should have an icon on the desktop). Sign in
  with your username and password.
- Run `Git Shell` (should have an icon on desktop). In that shell create the
  virtualenv::

    cd C:\
    C:\Python27\Scripts\virtualenv --distribute --system-site-packages oknesset
- Still in that shell activate the virutalenv::

    cd oknesset
    Scripts\activate

  Note the changed prompt with includes the virtualenv's name.
- Clone the repository. In the `oknesset` directory and run
  ``git clone git@github.com:your-name/Open-Knesset.git``
- Install requirements: ``pip install -r Open-Knesset\requirements.txt`` and
  wait.
- Run the tests::

    cd Open-Knesset
    python manage.py test

.. _Download distribute: http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#distribute- 
.. _2.7.3: http://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7.3/
.. _Download the latest Python 2.7: http://python.org/download/releases/
.. _PIL: http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#pil
.. _lxml: http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#lxml
.. _GitHub for Windows: http://windows.github.com


After basic installation: Tests and initial db
=================================================

.. note:: MS Windows users: repleace ``./manage.py`` with ``python manage.py``.

- Run the tests: ``./manage.py test``
- Download and extract dev.db (TODO: Provide a link) into the ``Open-Knesset``
  directory
- Make sure db schema is upated: ``./manage.py migrate``
- Create a superuser if needed: ``./manage.py createsuperuser``
- To run the development server: ``./manage.py runserver``. Once done, you can
  access it via http://localhost:8000


Installation process
-----------------------

- ``./manage.py runserver``
- ``vi knesset/local_settings.py`` 
  create your local setting file to store a bunch of things that you do NOT
  want to push to everyone # NOTE: NEVER push settings.py with local changes!
- sample input for local_settings.py: ``DATABASE_NAME = '<your-local-path>dev.db'``  # Or path to database file if using sqlite3.

.. note::
    at this point the bills view is missing bills names. To fix this you can run
    the time intensive:

    - ``./manage.py shell_plus``
    - ``for bill in Bill.objects.all(): bill.save()``

    or run this for just several bills:

    - ``for bill in Bill.objects.all()[:100]: bill.save()``

Trouble?
-------------

- Some of the mirrors are flaky so you might need to run the buildout several times until all downloads succeed.
- currently using MySQL as the database engine is not supported


Working process
===================

Let's describe some developement  workflow.

Before you code
----------------

Get your branch updated with the changes done by others. Please do this every time before you start developing:

- ``cd Open-Knesset``
- ``git pull git@github.com:hasadna/Open-Knesset.git master``
- ``bin/buildout``                     # only needed if the file buildout.cfg was changed; but can't hurt you if you run it every time.
- ``bin/django syncdb --migrate``      # do not create a superuser account
- ``bin/test``                         # if there are any failures, contact the other developers to see if that's something you should worry about.
- ``bin/django runserver``             # now you can play with the site using your browser

if you get the add_persons_aliases alert try ``bin/django migrate --fake persons 0001``

When you code
---------------

General
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Write tests for everything that you write.
- Keep performance in mind - test the number of db queries your code performs using ``bin/django runserver`` and access a page that runs the code you changed. See the output of the dev-server before and after your change.

Adding a field to existing model
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We use south to manage database migration. The work process looks something like:

- add the field you want to model sample_model in app sample_app
- bin/django schemamigration sample_app --auto # this generates a new migration under src/knesset/sample_app/migrations. You should review it to make sure it does what you expect.
- bin/django syncdb --migrate # run the migration.
- don't forget to git add/commit the migration file.

Updating the translation strings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Currently, there is no need to update translation (po) files. Its a real
headache to merge when there are conflicts, so simply add a note to the commit
message "need translations" if you added any _('...') or {% trans '...' %} to
the code.

After you code
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``./manage.py test`` # make sure you didn't break anything
- ``git status`` # to see what changes you made
- ``git diff filename`` # to see what changed in a specific file
- ``git add filename`` # for each file you changed/added.
- ``git commit -m`` "commit message" # Please write a sensible commit message, and include "fix#: [number]" of the issue number you're working on (if any).
- ``git push`` # push changes to git repo
- go to github.com and send a "pull request" so your code will be reviewed and pulled into the main branch, make sure the base repo is *hasadna/Open-Knesset*.
